Best Pizza: Artichoke Basille’s Pizza
Best Dessert: Yogurt Park
Best Drunk Food: Top Dog
Best Bar: Tap Haus
Best Korean: Kimchi Garden
Best Japanese: Ippudo Ramen
Best Indian: Punjabi Dhaba
Best Sandwich: Mezzo
Best Coffee Shop: Sodoi Coffee Tasting House
Best Grocery Store: Trader Joe’s on College Avenue
Best Fusion: Berkeley Social Club
Best Mexican: La Burrita
Best Vegan: The Butcher’s Son Vegan Delicatessen & Bakery
Best Boba: Yifang Taiwan Fruit Tea
Best Date Restaurant: Jupiter
Best Thai: Imm Thai Street Food
Best Bakery: Bagel Street Cafe
Best Takeout: Sheng Kee Bakery
Best Brunch: La Note
Support Our Nonprofit Newsroom
Local Events
They say home is where the heart is, but I would proclaim home is where the good food resides — which is epitomized by Berkeley’s food scene. Whether you’re meandering about College Avenue, Southside or Downtown Berkeley, there’s a plethora of hotspots and local hidden gems, directly catered to all of you foodies.
For those of you who accessorize with “walking lattes” or “walking boba drinks,” our readers recommend Sodoi Coffee Tasting House and Yifang Taiwan Fruit Tea. For those of you desiring to be seen on Taco Tuesday with a Golden State Cider in hand, Tap Haus is the place to be. For those who are struck with a case of the midnight munchies, Berkeley is the home of dessert divinities such as Yogurt Park and tasty Mexican restaurants such as La Burrita.
Beyond the heavenly offerings of diverse cuisines conveniently located alongside reliable grocery stores, Berkeley features restaurants for sharing meals or conveniently SnackPassing.
In a toast to finding comfort in the bites that make Berkeley taste a little more like home, we present to you the Best of Berkeley: Food Edition!
- Aimee Han
Eating comically large slices of pizza under the 2 a.m. moonlight on the staggered benches of Artichoke Basille’s Pizza, often shortened to Artichokes, is a quintessential UC Berkeley student experience.
With its extensive hours and unique flavors, Artichokes’ pizza is there for campus students — whether they’re taking a lunch break between classes or stumbling down Southside after a night out on Frat Row.
Though its origins date back to New York City in 2008, Artichokes has become just as much of a Southside Berkeley classic. The quick-service restaurant draws crowds of Berkeleyans to the corner of Durant and Bowditch, only increasing in size as the night goes on. As the edges of your fresh-out-of-the-oven Margherita, artichoke or vodka sauce slice hang over the rim of the paper plate, your stomach is sure to be satisfied.
Artichokes is the type of restaurant that hallmarks college towns — delicious slices, late-night hours and students making memories in between bites of pizza.
- Sofia Wallace
Soothing an itch for a sweet treat should be the least of your worries as a busy college student. Thankfully, Berkeley staple Yogurt Park offers more than just the towering swirls of frozen yogurt that magically never tip over.
Since opening its doors in 1977, this tiny gem located just off Durant Avenue has served as a go-to dessert destination for generations of UC Berkeley students. With a daily rotating selection of flavors — ranging from vibrant fruit blends to classic vanilla — Yogurt Park proves that frozen yogurt can be both a nostalgic indulgence and a fresh twist on dessert.
What truly sets Yogurt Park apart from other frozen yogurt shops isn’t just the yogurt itself but its abundance of toppings. You can pile on your favorite mix-ins like cookie dough or cheesecake bites, both throughout the cup and on top, creating a delightful avalanche of flavors that ensure every bite is satisfying.
Whether you’re treating yourself after a tough midterm, fighting late-night cravings following a long study session or just in need of a refreshing dessert on a sunny day, Yogurt Park is the perfect spot. Affordable, reliable and always bursting with flavor, it’s no wonder this place has earned a special place in the hearts of locals and students alike.
- Isabella Merino
Craving a late-night weiner after a drunken night at Tap Haus (2025 Best of Berkeley Bar)? Top Dog, conveniently located on Southside, is only a few storefronts over.
Offering a plethora of options to satisfy your savory cravings, from the classic frankfurter to the vegetarian wienie, Top Dog is a true Berkeley staple for everyone. If you like toppings on your hot dogs, then you’re in luck. In the small but mighty condiment bar, you can find a variety of mustards, sauerkraut, onion, relish and, of course, ketchup.
Whether it’s a game day or the middle of the night, it’s always rush hour here. While the lines may be long, the wait typically isn’t. Trust me — it’s worth it. And if repping Cal merch is not your thing, you can acquire a Top Dog T-shirt or baseball cap for $20.
Either way, Top Dog and all that it stands for is a quintessential embodiment of the Berkeley spirit.
- Andrea Chu-Tam
Located on the lively Durant Avenue, Tap Haus is a two-story adventure that college students of legal drinking age should embark upon during their time at Berkeley. Heavily populated on Tuesdays, Thursdays and during the weekend, this Southside fixture has something for everyone.
Whether it is racking up for a quick game of pool or mingling with friends you haven’t seen since freshman year, Tap Haus is by far the best place to socialize once you hit 21.
Drinkwise, a signature boot or green tea shot is highly recommended. Although Tap Haus itself does not serve food, it is conveniently located next to many iconic eateries that are open late for a quick pit stop on your way back home.
If you are looking for a final, close-to-home stop on your bar crawl or if you are just warming up for your night out, Tap Haus is a staple that always merits a visit.
- Emma Solomon
Located by Durant Plaza, Kimchi Garden is a short four-minute walk from campus. For many students, it’s the go-to spot for comfort food — and with good reason.
With a menu featuring more than 85 food items, Kimchi Garden offers a diverse selection of Korean dishes, ranging from Korean BBQ to soups, stews, rice bowls and more. However, their kimchi fried rice, tofu soup, beef kimbap, spicy tteokbokki and tonkatsu mayo rice bowl stand out as customer favorites. Open until at least midnight seven days a week, their bingsu and tasty drinks also make for a solid late-night sweet treat.
If you’re looking to dine in, the restaurant’s expansive seating area and casual ambience make it the prime location to catch up with friends. Or if you’re in need of some quick takeout, options to order ahead online or on kiosks in-store make for speedy and convenient service when you’re in a rush.
Be it lunch or dinner, dine in or takeout, Kimchi Garden is sure to have you covered.
- Christina Chang
Nestled within the busyness of Downtown Berkeley lies Ippudo Ramen, located on 2015 Kalai Bagai Way.
Although Ippudo Ramen serves a multitude of unique variations — per the chef’s personal preference — every bowl consists of a perfect “trifecta of soup, noodles and toppings.” Whether you’re slurping down on the “Shiromaru Classic” featuring thin noodles, its signature “tonkotsu” pork broth and pork belly chashu or the “Akamaru Veggie” composed of a sesame broth, thin noodles and tofu, your taste buds will be dancing with delight.
For those with an affinity for Japanese cuisine, the chefs can prepare perfectly handcrafted noodles with a variety of toppings, such as “tamago,” sweet corn and bamboo shoots. Although the menu doesn’t end there, you can also order yummy starters such as chicken “karaage” or pork buns.
Beneath the dimmed lights and atop the cozy wooden tables, Ippudo Ramen is an underrated find for sharing meals — solidifying bowls of ramen as Japanese “soul food.”
- Aimee Han
Another Asian Ghetto gem — Punjabi Dhaba is a family-owned restaurant serving Berkeley’s most coveted Indian food.
You smell the delectable waft of curry as you enter the holy walkway between Gypsy’s Trattoria Italiana and Sweetheart Cafe, into the bustling nook of Asian Ghetto. Even with the array of food options whispering your name, you find yourself floating on that aroma of chicken tikka masala.
You scan the seating inside the establishment and around the area and let out a sigh of disappointment as you see no open tables. How will you enjoy this world class dish with nowhere to sit?
Punjabi Dhaba is one step ahead. Nowhere to sit? No problem, munch on a chicken tikka burrito as you saunter down Durant Avenue. Not in the mood for naan? Order yourself some fries tikka masala.
To accommodate for all preferences, cravings and lifestyles, Punjabi Dhaba offers both traditional style dishes such as Tandoori chicken paired with veggie samosas and naan, and fusion items like those mentioned above. All Punjabi Dhaba demands is an adequate spice tolerance.
- Eliana Posin
Four years ago, I walked into Mezzo — a charming, spacious salad and sandwich spot with ample seating where prices range from $4 to $16 — and ordered for the first time. Nothing could have prepared me for what would happen next.
Before my eyes a bowl of greens, carrots, chickpeas, sprouts, kidney beans and cherry tomatoes suddenly materialized, topped with a hard-boiled egg and half an avocado. It was comically large, practically overflowing. Baffled, I ate half and took half to-go, pondering if my next order would be the chicken salad atop honey wheat bread or a BLTA — bacon, lettuce, tomato, avocado — on sea salt sourdough. The possibilities were and are endless.
Throughout college, relationships have ebbed and flowed, midterms have neared and passed and the months have warmed and cooled, but a constant has been the abundance of a Mezzo sandwich and salad. I’ve enjoyed Mezzo in the sun-dappled patio behind the restaurant, in my Friday night Christian fellowship group and now in my apartment on Haste Street.
Through generous portions, fresh ingredients and its cheerfully humming atmosphere, Mezzo affirms itself as a gathering space uniquely committed to both quality and quantity.
- Karissa Ho
Established in 2012 and tucked away in an alley by Unit 3, Sodoi Coffee Tasting House is a crowd favorite among students in search for their caffeine fix.
From classics such as the vanilla latte to unique offerings such as the chaga mushroom lattes to seasonal items such as the pumpkin pie latte, Sodoi has a wide selection of drinks available. My personal favorite is the strawberry matcha latte, which depending on my mood, can be made more or less sweet by the friendly baristas.
The cafe also boasts a cozy and inviting atmosphere reflective of its mission “to deliver hope and inspiration with every cup we serve.” It features dim lighting and theater-like, nautical-themed decor: a boat display lining the back wall, portraits of the cafe’s founders painted on old coffee bean bags, a piano, wall art and a charming dream wall with messages written by endearing customers over the years.
With free Wi-Fi, outlets and an assortment of seating options — bar style, small personal tables and communal spaces for larger groups — Sodoi serves as a great location for individual or collaborative studying and coffee chats alike.
- Christina Chang
O Trader Joe’s, my Trader Joe’s. A beacon of hope, a pillar of light. Our local eighth wonder, oh how I miss you each night. Enter into the warmth of beautiful flowers and find lavish shelves with seasonal towers. Okay, jokes aside.
Seasons shift, fashion is peripatetic and once new and wide-eyed freshman Bears seem to earn alumni status all too quickly. These ever-changing social and cultural mores are essential to the beautiful, bustling life that vitalizes Berkeley. But every daring chick needs a safe nest to return to on those dark, torrential nights: For us, that place of solace is the always balanced Trader Joe’s.
The 14,000-square-foot grocery store, endearingly nicknamed TJ’s, marries consistency and variety with haute, delicious fresh food at student-friendly prices. Located at 5727 College Ave., Trader Joe’s prioritizes functionality without loss of form. Offering everything from the basics to the nostalgic warmth of a quasi-home cooked meal, Trader Joe’s is quaint, welcoming and always has what you need — yes, even eggs.
- Ayal Meyers
We’ve all heard it before, “My parents are visiting, where should we eat?” Well, look no further than Berkeley’s very own Berkeley Social Club, or BSC. Located on the bustling University Avenue, BSC offers a wide variety of innovative Korean American inspired dishes guaranteed to make your parents come back for seconds.
Although its prices may be on the upper end for the average college student, Berkeley Social Club welcomes moms, pops and their salivating children to dine in its lively atmosphere and delve into its carefully crafted menu. Indulge in delicious bites such as strawberry avocado toast, fluffy lemon ricotta pancakes and a prime selection of “egg-cellent” breakfast options, or lunch and dinner dishes such as the spicy pork sandwich and Korean fried chicken. Perfect for any meal, Berkeley Social Club has a menu you’ll want to try out in its entirety.
Espresso martini, anyone? BSC’s refreshing cocktails and beer selection is sure to let you spill the tea with your parents. Just be sure to show off that UC Berkeley brain of yours and make a reservation if you plan on going over the weekend. Word on the street is that it’s booked and busy.
- Ahana Sur
La Burrita, family-owned and standing since 1985, is the UC Berkeley student’s old reliable Mexican spot — most definitely deserving its recognition as one of the Best of Berkeley.
Conveniently open from 11 a.m. to 1 a.m. on Durant Avenue, La Burrita has a versatile menu — my go-to is the California Burrito with dark-green salsa (whew, it never fails) — and offers arguably the best bang for your buck near campus. There’s also a Northside location on Euclid Avenue, generally open from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m., which satisfies the taste buds around the often quieter area of campus.
The beauty of La Burrita is that it’s always there when you need it. After wild social gatherings, torturous sporting events and gut-checking exams, La Burrita will be there to welcome you with open arms.
Sure, there’s a Taco Bell nearby, but you didn’t come to UC Berkeley for the standard corporate America experience. Go get yourself a burrito and horchata from La Burrita and live to fight another day — trust me, the food is “hella buena,” as the restaurant’s slogan reads.
- Joaquin Ruiz
Just a few 51B stops away on University Avenue, The Butcher’s Son offers delicious sandwiches, salads and desserts. Their brunch is a star, with vegan bacon even your carnivore friends will enjoy, and if you’re brave enough to take them on, fantastic donut-stuffed-pancakes.
After you order at their front counter, grab a free coffee courtesy of vegan brand Timeless Coffee to sip outside while you wait for your food in their peaceful back garden with red roses, lush trees and a cobblestone patio.
The Butcher’s Son is the perfect spot for a chat with vegan and non-vegan friends alike, a first date or even a solo study moment. Whatever you order, you can’t go wrong. Their buffalo ranch fried chicken sandwich, steak banh mi or pastrami reuben will be a hit. Don’t forget to add garlic fries, a personal favorite, for just $3.
- Ella Carter-Klauschie
There are boba shops, and then there’s Yifang — the kind of place that makes “walking boba” feel like a quiet act of finesse. Just off Telegraph Avenue, Yifang Taiwan Fruit Tea is known for doing things differently: fruit-forward teas, clean ingredients and flavors that actually taste like what they say they are.
Some call it an acquired taste, but really, that just means it’s not basic. The mango pomelo sago is rich, citrusy and smooth. The lychee sago? Delicate, floral and refreshingly balanced. Even the brown sugar pearl latte hits different — sweet without being overwhelming, and somehow always the right call.
The shop itself is small, calm and unfussy inside, a welcome pause from the rush of campus life. I’ve had some of my favorite post class catch-ups just standing on the sidewalk, drink in hand, letting time slow down for a bit.
Whether you’re a fruit tea purist or ready to graduate from artificial syrups and a sugar overload, Yifang is the spot. It’s subtle, elevated and full of intention — everything a Berkeley boba staple should be!
- Zarin Mahmud
Located in the heart of Downtown Berkeley, the neon blue sign reading “Jupiter” beckons you to enter into its low-lit, gothic-inspired interior with a date on your arm. Find a seat in a salvaged church pew or on the back patio to enjoy some live music.
The warm aroma of woodfired pizza will greet you as you wait for your food. The menu hosts a variety of galactically-inspired pizzas available in individual or sharing sizes, perfect for a couple to split or mix and match flavors. Toppings range from the classic cheese pizza — dressed up by its name, “Andromeda” — to the stand-out “Circe” topped with shrimp and garlic.
Not a pizza fan? Never fear, the selection also includes a variety of sandwiches and salads, as well as a comprehensive selection of drinks and on-tap beers to sip on as you stare longingly into the eyes of your date.
Whether this is your first date or your hundredth, Jupiter is certain to woo you and help you win over the heart of your partner with its innovative menu items and cozy ambience.
- Zoe Campion
I’ve been to just one Thai restaurant in Berkeley and never felt inclined to try another. I have my birthday dinners, bring my visiting family and friends and enjoy my post finals celebration meal all at one place: Imm Thai. And, I’m definitely not the only fan — there’s always a wait for a table, but that just means more time to bask in the glory of Imm Thai and ponder what to order.
The inside is crammed with people, and the restaurant is organized without concern for personal space. It’s loud, and steam from the kitchen fills the air. The tables are made of unfinished rough wood and the cups are cool metal. All of these details are what make dining at Imm Thai a special experience.
Order anything off the menu and it’ll be good, but my favorites are the pad see ew and yellow curry. My friends love the spicy fried rice, and my sister loves the fried rolls. Portion sizes are big enough to allow me to steal some of their food without feeling the least bit guilty. If you’re looking for a new favorite restaurant, try Imm Thai.
- Sumaya Azhar
When I first explored Telegraph Avenue as a freshman, I was shocked to find out Bagel Street Cafe existed beyond my hometown. Bagel Street was my childhood staple — my mom’s favorite sandwich spot, my dad’s favorite zucchini bread spot and my friends’ middle school hangout spot.
Now, at Berkeley, I default to Bagel Street when I need breakfast on the go or a refreshing, reasonably priced smoothie. Its menu is bursting with freshly baked bagels, ranging from chocolate chip to asiago, a variety of flavored cream cheese spreads and its own bagel sandwich creations.
When you walk into Bagel Street Cafe, a bell rings and welcomes you into the store. It is bustling every morning as students rush to their 8 a.m. classes, yet servers always manage to remember every customer’s order by ear — no paper necessary.
My girlfriend and I went so often last semester the regulars at the counter always know to ask if we want a smoothie with our bagels. And even if we don’t plan on it, the lighthearted joke and their kindness almost always wills me to get my normal peach smoothie anyway.
- Megan Lam
With a Berkeley location so close to campus it could practically be on Sproul Plaza, Sheng Kee Bakery offers convenient, affordable and delicious goods like no other. Duck between the streams of students making their way up and down Telegraph Avenue into a haven of pastries and cheap caffeine.
While Sheng Kee Bakery offers terrific cakes for all celebrations, its true draw are the piles of crinkly plastic-wrapped goodies. With all types of pastries, even the pickiest taste palette will find something to nibble.
Savory snackers will appreciate its more umami fillings such as pork floss and cheddar chicken, while those with a sweet tooth will have no shortage of sweet buns from the custard and red bean to choose from.
One thing to note is all purchases under $5 must be in cash, however, as a sign next to its register proclaims. Buy your friend a drink! Or just buy yourself another pastry. There are no losses at Sheng Kee Bakery.
- Molly Freeman
With French-inspired offerings spanning from eggs to pastries to griddle-cooked classics, this cozy brunch spot on Shattuck Avenue is the perfect way to experience your favorite breakfast food — but with a flair. Since 1997, La Note has provided the ideal place to bring your family to brunch with its rustic interior and quality food — so long as you have a reservation to avoid the long line for a table.
Besides the flaky croissants that naturally come with a French breakfast spot, I go to La Note for the rich mocha and signature La Note Pain Perdu — the perfect French toast. My coffee-addicted mom can vouch for their latte, and my brother swears by the “Cote Sud” combo meal of eggs, sausage, home fries and toast as his holy grail, morning-after cure.
The only important thing to remember as you soak up the sun on La Note’s patio or people watch through its bay windows is that this is indeed the best that brunch can ever get in Berkeley. Just don’t overthink your French pronunciation of the menu; the always-friendly staff will know what you mean!
- Alexa Folb
We're an independent student-run newspaper, and need your support to maintain our coverage.
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp
LinkedIn
SMS
Email
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp
LinkedIn
SMS
Email
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp
LinkedIn
SMS
Email
Print
Copy article link
Save
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp
LinkedIn
SMS
Email
Print
Copy article link
Save
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp
LinkedIn
SMS
Email
Print
Copy article link
Save
Artichoke Basille's Pizza
Yogurt Park
Top Dog
Tap Haus
Kimchi Garden
Ippudo Ramen
Punjabi Dhaba
Mezzo
Sodoi Coffee Tasting House
Trader Joe's On College Avenue
College Avenue
Trader Joe's
Berkeley Social Club
La Burrita
The Butcher's Son Vegan Delicatessen & Bakery
Yifang Taiwan Fruit Tea
Jupiter
Imm Thai Street Food
Bagel Street Cafe
Sheng Kee Bakery
La Note