How To Get To Berkeley
Travel Map of Best Places To Eat, Play, Stay in Berkeley
What Makes Berkeley’s Food and Drink Scene So Special?
Best Places To Eat and Drink in Berkeley
Best Things to Do in Berkeley
Where To Stay in Berkeley For Your Food Trip
Time to Plan That Berkeley Food Trip!
Agriculture
Community-Driven
Diversity and University
Outside Training and Hometown Love
Berkeley Breakfast and Cafes
Best Restaurants and Bars in Berkeley
Specialty Food and Drinks in Berkeley
Unique Berkeley Culinary Experiences
Second-Tallest Freestanding Clock and Bell Tower in the World at the UC Berkeley Campus
The Third Largest Botanical Garden at University of California Botanical Garden at Berkeley
Architectural Wonders from the First Woman to Earn an Architect’s License in California at Berkeley City Club
Panoramic Views and Climbing History at Indian Rock Park
Stay with History at Berkeley City Club
Looking for the best places to eat and drink in Berkeley to plan your ultimate itinerary? As a travelling foodie, I was on a mission to explore Berkeley’s culinary scene, from restaurants and bars to specialty food & drinks and unique experiences.
Welcome to Berkeley, home to the oldest campus in the University of California, often referred to “Berzerkeley” or simply “Cal.”
A blend of coastal beauty, iconic university culture, diverse culinary experiences, and abundant outdoor adventure makes this city the perfect base for your Bay Area exploration.
I have a personal connection to this city because my dad graduated at UC Berkeley with a degree in Master of Science in Engineering.
It comes full circle for me to explore where my dad studied. I got to eat my way through the neighborhoods to discover exactly where to eat in Berkeley.
In a culinary project with Visit Berkeley, I spent 4 days tasting my way in Cal, while meeting chefs , restaurateurs, and entrepreneurs that make its culinary scene so vibrant.
We’re featuring some of the best places to eat & drink in Berkeley I had the chance to visit in this travel guide.
I flew from Toronto (YYZ) to San Francisco (SFO) via a direct flight with Porter Airlines, which took about 6 hours.
Major US cities like Seattle , Las Vegas , Austin and Denver can fly into Oakland (OAK) as an alternative to San Francisco.
At the airport, I took an Uber to my hotel, passing over the scenic Bay Bridge, though you can also take the BART directly to the Downtown Berkeley station.
Below is an interactive map of all the Berkeley restaurants, food & drinks, attractions and my hotel featured in this travel guide, plus other places to stay in Berkeley for hotels and accommodations with deals and prices:
So what exactly makes the Berkeley food scene so special? It boils down to a perfect combination of agriculture, community, diversity, and talent.
While Cal is famous globally as a prestigious academic hub, it is equally a culinary destination.
The Berkeley food scene is booming, filled with locally owned restaurants from award winning chefs , unique local foods, and a thrilling drink scene. If you love discovering Michelin Guide restaurants around the world , they also have it here.
First off, the agriculture here is unmatched. California’s famously fertile land and deep agricultural roots support an incredibly rich culinary culture.
Berkeley is literally the birthplace of the modern farm to table movement, meaning restaurants here have a profound obsession with locally sourced, peak season ingredients.
Then there’s the community aspect. It is a wonderfully tight knit city that fiercely champions small food businesses.
You see this beautifully at community hubs like The Berkeley Kitchens , where local food entrepreneurs share space and collaborate.
They even start them young here with initiatives like The Edible Schoolyard Project , teaching kids about the direct connection between food, nature, and community.
Diversity and the university also play massive roles in what makes the gastronomy in Berkeley so spectacular.
A rich history of immigration paired with the UC Berkeley international crowd has brought a stunning array of global flavors to the city streets.
The university brings a vibrant, younger demographic that keeps the culinary scene incredibly creative, ever changing, and constantly evolving.
Plus, the university’s prestigious programs in food and agriculture fuel so much of the innovation and sustainable practices you see in the local restaurants.
Finally, there is this beautiful blend of outside training and hometown love. You have incredible chefs who grew up in other countries bringing the authentic, comforting flavors of their hometown cuisines to the area.
At the same time, you have local chefs who traveled the world to work and train at some of the absolute best restaurants globally, honed their craft, and then proudly returned to set up shop right here.
There is so much to love about Berkeley’s culinary landscape, and I cannot wait to share my absolute favorite spots with you. Here’s a short video recap:
They say breakfast is the most important meal of the day, and this city takes its morning culinary game very seriously.
From sunny neighborhood patios pouring the perfect cortado to legendary diners flipping pancakes, these are some of the best places to eat in Berkeley to start your day off right.
Finding an authentic German breakfast is quite rare, which makes Anja’s Kitchen such a special find. Located on University Avenue, this cozy cafe was opened in 2024 by Chef Anja Voth.
Chef Anja previously ran the beloved Gaumenkitzel restaurant for 13 years before pivoting to this intimate, zero waste kitchen concept. I had the pleasure of meeting Chef Anja, who is a true one woman powerhouse running the cafe.
It is a wonderful spot focusing on organic California cuisine made with German love, and everything is handmade daily from scratch.
The space looks small from the street, but be sure to head out the back to find a massive, beautiful patio space perfect for chilling in the morning sun.
I started with a unique pancake and orange raisin muffin, which I actually prefer over traditional muffins because it is so much fluffier and less dense.
We also enjoyed a comforting egg and golden potato casserole mixed with carrots, red bell peppers, smoked paprika, and Swiss Gruyere cheese, which we topped with incredible local smoked salmon from Monterey Fish Market .
But the absolute star of the menu was the Jägerschnitzel, a German pork schnitzel prepared hunter style. The lightly breaded pork loin was tender, crispy, and juicy, served with a phenomenal brown crimini mushroom, onion, and red wine cream sauce.
It was accompanied by homemade spaetzle, the famous German egg noodles, which perfectly mopped up every last drop of that rich sauce.
Sometimes you just need to find an oasis away from the hustle and bustle, and The Hidden Cafe is exactly that.
Located at 1250 Addison Street inside a historic landmark building, this beloved local gem sits directly adjacent to the beautiful Strawberry Creek Park.
Opened in 2020 by Andy Kellogg and his partners, the cafe is truly where the locals hang out.
It operates as a vital community hub, hosting live music, art installations like the dumpster mural project, and a rotating lineup of chef residencies.
The space is designed to harmonize with nature, featuring an entire wall of bookshelves indoors and sunny picnic tables outside.
I enjoyed a perfectly crafted cortado while sitting outdoors, completely immersed in the peaceful nature and vibrant community atmosphere. It is the perfect place to recharge before tackling more things to do in Berkeley.
If you are hunting for hearty, creative breakfast comfort food, look no further than Eggy’s Neighborhood Kitchen .
Located inside the Epicurious Garden complex, this casual spot opened its doors and immediately reinvigorated the neighborhood’s courtyard dining scene.
The concept is interesting because you order and pay at the front counter, find a seat in the lush outdoor patios, and your food is brought to you by attentive servers.
The menu is vast and focuses on familiar breakfast items with a playful, indulgent twist.
I ordered the famous Eggy’s Tres Leches French Toast, which used thick slices of challah bread topped with fresh berries and a sweet milk drizzle. While the French toast itself was good, I would have loved it even more if the toast had been soaked in the milk mixture like a tres leches cake.
The absolute highlight was the Birria Tacos. Featuring slow braised beef and melted chihuahua cheese, I decided to customize my order by adding shrimp inside the tacos.
This created a phenomenal surf and turf breakfast taco, with the sweet shrimp perfectly complementing the rich, savory beef consomme and creamy avocado serrano salsa.
Nothing says American breakfast quite like a classic diner, and the Oceanview Diner nails this nostalgic experience.
Located in the lively shopping and dining district, Fourth Street neighborhood, this iconic establishment was originally opened in 1982 by Bette Kroening and her partners.
For decades, it was known as Bette’s Oceanview Diner before transitioning to new ownership, but it has barely changed its retro charm and incredible recipes.
I arrived at 11:30 am for lunch and there was already a waitlist, which speaks volumes about its enduring popularity. They are famous for their oven baked souffle pancakes, which are massive, and perfect for sharing.
I opted for the savory route and ordered the grilled Reuben sandwich. It was a nice balance, featuring salty corned beef, tangy sauerkraut, melted Swiss cheese, and slightly sweet Russian dressing on perfectly toasted rye bread, served alongside crispy home fries .
When it comes to lunch, dinner, and evening drinks, the sheer variety and quality of dining options has something for everyone.
Whether you are hunting for comforting street food, Michelin recognized international flavors, or the very birthplace of the farm-to-table movement, these are some of the best restaurants and bars you cannot miss.
If there is one quintessential restaurant you must visit in Berkeley, it is Chez Panisse .
In fact, when I told a foodie friend in Toronto I was visiting the area, the first thing he asked was if I was going to this legendary spot.
Located in the area historically known as the Gourmet Ghetto, Chez Panisse was opened in 1971 by chef and owner Alice Waters.
This institution is universally recognized as one of the originators of California cuisine and the modern farm-to-table movement.
The accolades are endless, including a Michelin Star history, a Michelin Recommended status, and Alice Waters winning the James Beard Foundation Award for Best Chef in America.
What makes this place so incredibly special is that the menu changes daily based on the finest peak season produce available. You always know you are in for a treat, and repeat visits will consistently surprise you.
They have a main restaurant downstairs for dinner offering a set pre fixe menu, and a cafe upstairs for a la carte dining.
I dined at the cafe, where the vibe is fun, casual, and feels like dining at someone’s beautiful home. I highly recommend ordering family style to enjoy a multitude of dishes.
My favorite appetizer was the local farm asparagus roasted in the wood oven, served with a butter bean puree and Meyer lemon. The tender crisp asparagus contrasted beautifully with the earthy bean puree and the bright lemon.
The homemade Mezzi Rigatoni with chanterelles, leeks, and creme fraiche was perfectly cooked and delicious.
My favorite entree was the Grilled Lamb Leg, which they thoughtfully deboned, resulting in a tender, juicy cut brightened by a vibrant mustard sauce.
We also shared a Wood Fired Pizza with tomato sauce, anchovies, and black olives that featured a delicious thin crust with the perfect balance of crispiness and chew.
For dessert, the creamy bittersweet chocolate custard with creme chantilly and semolina cookies was my absolute favorite, offering a profound dark chocolate flavor. I also loved the rare huckleberry ice cream paired with a wonderfully chewy ginger cookie.
We paired our meal with a beautiful Domaine Tempier Bandol Rose from Provence, which was smooth, fruity, and amazing on a hot day.
Dining here reminded me of the profound respect for ingredients I experienced at Restaurant Pearl Morissette in Canada , another champion of hyper local sourcing.
If you prefer a more relaxed vibe, you must visit Morgan’s Bar and Lounge , a restored lounge right inside Berkeley City Club. Reminds me of those old school Gentlemen’s Club interiors you see in movies that I can see myself hanging at. I tried their signature cocktail, The Little Castle, named after the building’s nickname. It features butterfly tea infused vodka, mint, cucumber, and lime juice, making it a visually stunning and refreshing drink.
The food and beverage program at the Berkeley City Club (aka Little Castle) is spectacular. Their fine dining French restaurant, Julia’s Restaurant , opened in the same era and continues to offer an elegant dining room designed by Morgan herself.
Chef Fabrice leads the kitchen, focusing on contemporary French cuisine that weaves the rich tapestry of California cuisine with classic techniques, using the freshest organic ingredients.
The restaurant is highly acclaimed locally for its romantic atmosphere and culinary excellence.
I had an incredible dinner here starting with the Baked Escargot. Served with garlic butter and warm French baguettes, it was perhaps the most tender escargot I have ever had.
I did not expect to love the Country Style Pork Cognac Pate as much as I did, but it was incredibly creamy with a wonderful combination of flavors from the arugula, fig jam, cornichons, and Dijon mustard.
For the main course, I enjoyed a perfectly cooked Rib Eye Steak with a red wine reduction, and a Braised Short Rib that was fork tender and flavorful, served over roquefort mashed potatoes.
For dessert, the Vanilla Rice Pudding was not your typical mushy pudding because it used arborio rice for a nice chew, while the Chocolate Lava Cake featured a brilliant contrast of warm caramel and cold espresso ice cream.
I paired my meal with an Ink Grade Andasol from Napa Valley, a beautifully smooth blend of zinfandel and cabernet sauvignon.
When you want to experience the true depth of the Berkeley culinary diversity, you have to visit Great China .
Located in the downtown district, this spectacular restaurant serves authentic Northern Chinese cuisine with a focus on bold flavors and time honored techniques using Northern California ingredients.
Established in 1985 by Mike and Jenny Yu, it is now run by their sons James and Tai Yu. The restaurant has earned a prestigious Michelin Bib Gourmand award , a Wine Spectator Award of Excellence, and a James Beard nomination for its outstanding wine program.
The space is walk-in only, and we happily waited about 40 minutes to get a table in their beautiful dining room, which includes large tables with lazy susans perfect for groups.
While at the bar, I highly recommend trying Chinese Baiju, a traditional distilled spirit made from fermented sorghum. The staff noted it was 52% alcohol, making it a very strong spirit.
For context, typical spirits like rum and vodka are at 40%, and the highest alcohol spirit I have ever had was a 68% bourbon during my Northern Kentucky bourbon tour .
Great China takes it a step further by offering house aged baiju. I tried both the bourbon barrel aged baiju, which was incredibly strong and robust, and the burgundy barrel aged baiju, which tasted sweeter and flowed much smoother with less burn.
The food is equally impressive. The Deep Fried Pork Pot Stickers offered a massive burst of flavor and juice when bitten into, while the Boiled Pork Dumplings featured perfectly al dente homemade wrappers.
The Half Tea-Smoked Duck is an absolute must order. I rarely find this dish due to its complexity, but they executed it perfectly because the duck was crispy, tender, and the smoke flavors were prominent without overpowering the meat.
The Peking Roast Duck is another standout, featuring intensely crisp skin and succulent meat, served generously with two dozen wraps and plum sauce.
Fun Fact : I love Peking Duck so much! When I was traveling in Beijing, I ate Peking Duck almost every day, and this is honestly the best I have had in the United States.
Even their modernized dishes shine. The Walnut Prawns were rich and creamy with crispy plump shrimp and candied walnuts, offering a unique and delicious take on the classic. You’ll also have one of the better Sweet and Sour Pork here.
For dessert, do not judge a book by its cover. The jasmine tea and chocolate cookie ice cream arrived looking like a generic pale green mint color, but the flavor absolutely blew my mind with its spot on, intensely aromatic jasmine tea taste.
As I travel the world to eat, a lot of people ask me where my favorite country is, and I usually say Japan is at the top of my list .
I love Ippuku so much because as soon as I walked past the traditional Noren Japanese door curtain, I felt like I was instantly transported back to Japan.
Located in the downtown neighborhood, this incredibly authentic izakaya was opened in 2010 by Chef Christian Geideman, who spent 5 years learning his trade in Kyoto.
His dedication to purist Japanese philosophy has earned the restaurant a Michelin Bib Gourmand and a James Beard award nomination.
The interior is dark and intimate, featuring low Japanese style tables, extensive woodwork, and an open charcoal grill setup where you can watch the chefs meticulously make skewers to order.
They specialize in Jidori Gushi, featuring the Label Rouge heritage breed chicken, with all birds butchered in house daily. I love that they do not hold back on adventurous cuts like chicken heart, skin, liver and cartilage.
For yakitori , I tried the Hatsu (heart), Kawa (skin), and Negima (thigh with leek) skewers, and each one was perfectly cooked with the exact right amount of charcoal smokiness without being overdone.
Beyond chicken, you’ll want to try more. The Kurobata-Bara (black pork belly), which is essentially the wagyu of pork, offered intense savory flavor and a melt in your mouth texture.
The Wagyu Kushi Yaki featured an A5 Hokkaido rib cap served rare with matcha salt, providing silky tenderness and a rich buttery flavor brought out perfectly by the grill.
However, my absolute favorite dish was the Gindara Saikyo Yaki, a local black cod marinated in sweet saikyo miso that melts in your mouth.
There are also raw and fried dishes like the Sashimi Santen-Mori with three kinds of fresh sashimi and the Kaki Fry, panko-fried Wilapa Bay oysters with taru taru sauce that are great for sharing.
Ippuku is a great way to try different Japanese drinks as they have Japanese beer, sake, chu-hi, umeshu, whiskey and shochu.
I paired these amazing bites with an Okinawa Paloma, a fun twist on the classic cocktail using yuzu shochu, and a refreshing Akashi White Oak blended whiskey highball that perfectly cleansed the palate between fatty skewers.
Desserts are simple with gelato and sorbet, but they still deliver. The guava sorbet felt like eating actual guava in the creamiest sorbet you’ll ever try.
If you love the meticulous attention to detail found at Japanese places like n/naka in Los Angeles , you will deeply appreciate Ippuku.
For a true Italian dinner, Donato and Co in the lively Elmwood neighborhood is a must visit.
Opened in 2017, Chef Donato Scotti partnered with his longtime friend Chef Gianluca Guglielmi to bring rustic, regional Italian cuisine with a contemporary twist to the Bay Area.
I met Chef Gianluca, who growing up in Italy surrounded by family of professional chef s , paved the way for his own journey cooking at restaurants in Italy, including at 2 Michelin Star Ristorante Locanda dell’Angelo in La Spenzia.
Their dedication to Italian cuisine and quality has earned them prestigious accolades, including two forchettes from the Gambero Rosso Top Italian Restaurants in the World guide.
Even their extensive wine list boasts all Italian wines like the Pietraventosa – Primitivo & Aglianico EstRosa IGT 2022, a juicy and fruity Rose awarded 3 glasses by Gambero Rosso.
The atmosphere is warm with a sophisticated industrial chic vibe, and majority of the menu from the pastas to the gelatos is made in house.
I started with a Sangue Sour cocktail, a fantastic choice for whiskey sour lovers, featuring gin, spiced blood orange liquor, and egg white.
The Arancini were wonderfully different, utilizing Carnaroli rice, sweet English peas, and saffron, fried to perfection and served with a spicy red bell pepper sauce.
I was completely surprised by the Pizzelle. Described as small Neapolitan style fried pizzas shaped round like a deflated ball, the texture was incredibly light and airy, reminding me of Chinese fried mantou buns.
The homemade paccheri pasta in the Pescatora dish was flawlessly cooked, tossed with ahi tuna, gulf shrimp, and mussels in a light, garlic infused tomato sauce.
For the main course, the Bistecca with dry aged black angus sirloin was unbelievably juicy and tender, elevated by a bright green herb sauce.
The dessert presentation was stunning. The peach and sabayon dessert featured decadent yellow peach sorbet and Marsala wine sabayon presented as a creative and playful potted plant that reminded me of the Pulling Weeds dessert at Michelin Star restaurant, Frilu in Toronto .
Beyond traditional sit down meals, the city is an incredible haven for food entrepreneurs, bakers, and artisanal creators.
If you love discovering unique snacks, hyper seasonal fusions, and world famous pastries crafted with love, you need to explore these specialty food spots in Berkeley.
When exploring a new city, finding those legendary local institutions is a must. Top Dog is an absolute Berkeley institution for sausages and a very popular classic known for its longtime local following.
Owners Renie and Richard Riemann opened the first Top Dog in 1966, and it has been a staple for university students and locals ever since.
Located on Durant Avenue right near the university campus, I was starving upon my arrival to the city, and this spot definitely hit the spot.
I love the immense variety of sausages they offer, ranging from all beef frankfurters and German bratwurst to Polish kielbasa and Italian Calabrese.
I decided to try the Louisiana-style Hot Link, which is crafted with beef and four kinds of pepper. The sausage was incredibly juicy and meaty with a really nice bit of heat that lingered perfectly on the palate.
It is easy to see why this humble spot has survived decades of changing food trends. Sometimes you just need a classic, perfectly executed hot dog. Top Dog is top dog!
I deeply love this city’s focus on small businesses, community, and food, and The Berkeley Kitchens is the absolute epitome of this ethos
Located in West Berkeley at 2701 8th Street, this vibrant culinary hub is housed inside the historic Kawneer Building.
Built in 1913, this former industrial factory features beautiful brick architecture and massive saw toothed skylights.
Today, it has been transformed into a collection of commercial rental kitchens designed specifically for food entrepreneurs, showcasing a rotating lineup of local vendors and creative chef concepts. Here are the ones I had the pleasure of visiting.
My first stop inside The Berkeley Kitchens was Cult Crackers , where I met founder Dianna Dar and her husband.
Dianna started the company in 2017, drawing from her background in a third generation California farming family to create healthy, organic, artisan seed crackers.
These crackers are so exceptional they have won the prestigious Good Food Awards.
They produce around 800 packages a day using a blend of 6 super seeds. I got to see their operations firsthand.
Everything is done manually by hand, from mixing to slicing, except for the baking oven and packaging machine.
Even the slicing tool was custom engineered by Dianna’s physicist husband to cut the crackers perfectly.
I absolutely loved the crunch and taste, especially of their Crunchy Cassava Crackers, which are entirely gluten free but packed with an incredibly deep, savory flavor.
Count me as an official member of the cult!
Next at The Berkeley Kitchens, I met Chef Jin, the owner of Fins and Feathers , which was founded in late 2024.
Chef Jin approaches hyper seasonal Californian cooking through a Singaporean lens , informed by her heritage and formal culinary training at the New England Culinary Institute.
I tasted her homemade duck roulade, which was elegantly paired with balsamic vinegar, olive oil, and petite greens. The dish was accompanied by her incredible homemade sambal tumis.
Chef Jin has a severe shellfish allergy, so she engineered a vegan sambal that completely omits the traditional shrimp paste.
I never expected a vegan sambal to taste this authentic, but it was an absolute umami explosion, and you honestly do not miss the shrimp paste at all.
It immediately came to mind how the duck roulade with sambal topped on a Cassava Cult Cracker would make the ultimate party canape.
You cannot talk about this city’s food scene without mentioning Third Culture Bakery .
Founded in 2016 by Chef Sam Butarbutar and Wenter Shyu, the bakery draws inspiration from their childhoods in Indonesia and Taiwan as third culture kids.
They are famous globally for creating the Original Mochi Muffin in 2014.
Their commitment to high quality ingredients is unparalleled. They use rice flour from a third generation Japanese American farm, organic French style butter, Indonesian coconut sugar, and premium matcha from Uji, Japan.
I met Babette, the general manager of this incredible spot located at The Berkeley Kitchens.
Since mochi donuts are one of my favorite Japanese desserts , I was beyond excited to try everything.
The Original Mochi Muffin completely impressed me: it was slightly crunchy on the outside, chewy and airy on the inside, with deep flavors of caramel and brown butter without being overly sweet.
As a salted egg lover, the salted egg yolk mochi muffin was even richer, offering a perfect creamy, salty, and sweet profile.
Their Butter Mochi Donuts are phenomenal. The yuzu lemon flavor provided a sharp citrus cut through the sweetness, while the black and gold donut brilliantly incorporated black sesame directly into the mochi dough.
Growing up in the Philippines , I was thrilled to see authentic Filipino flavors like buko pandan, ube and mango.
They also offer a Savory Pork Floss and Cheese Mochi Waffle (a first for me!) topped with green onions, nori, and kewpie mayo that reminded me so much of takoyaki .
I washed it all down with a Black Sesame Roasted Matcha Latte, a brilliant and rare combination of nutty black sesame and earthy roasted tencha green tea.
Sometimes the best culinary adventures go beyond just eating a meal and dive deep into the actual craft and culture itself.
Berkeley offers some incredibly unique food and drink experiences where you can learn about history, science, and flavor all at the same time.
If you are visiting in the winter in February, you must check out the annual Black Vines event held at the CIEL Creative Space .
Founded in 2010 by Fern Stroud, it is the longest standing Black wine festival in the country and was voted the number one wine festival in the USA by USA Today.
It is an incredible celebration of culture, featuring over 20 Black-owned wineries, art, and music.
The atmosphere is pure joy, with everyone dancing and enjoying phenomenal wines, proving that this city’s beverage scene is as diverse as it is delicious.
In West Berkeley, you will find Takara Sake USA , the largest sake producer in the United States.
Established in 1983, this facility blends history, modern technology, and the craft of sake brewing into an incredible educational experience.
The parent company dates back to 1842 in Kyoto, Japan, and they chose this California location specifically to utilize pure snowmelt from the Sierra Nevada mountains and premium Calrose rice from the Sacramento Valley.
Their Sake Tasting Experience included a fascinating video presentation and a self-guided tour of their sake museum.
I learned that sake brewing is incredibly unique. Unlike wine or beer, sake uses a complex method called multiple parallel fermentation, where steamed rice is simultaneously converted into sugar by koji mold (made from 20% of the steamed rice) and then fermented into alcohol by yeast in the exact same mash.
A critical factor in sake quality is the rice polishing ratio: the lower the ratio, the higher the quality, as more of the grain’s exterior fats and proteins are milled away.
The Variety Tasting Course was a great way for me to compare different styles side by side, from robust classic Junmai to unfiltered Nigori, from 40% to 70% rice polished sake, and from room temp to warm sake.
Our tasting guide Vivienne did an amazing job guiding as through the tasting experience with a wealth of information and interesting anecdotes.
The absolute highlight was tasting the rare Sho Chiku Bai Shirakabegura Shiho Junmai Daiginjo imported from Hyogo, Japan. It boasts a 20% rice polishing ratio, meaning 80% of the grain was discarded.
It was the smoothest, most delicate sake I have ever tasted, featuring sweet yet profound umami notes that you can only experience at this specific tasting room.
To balance out all the incredible food, thankfully, Berkeley is packed with beautiful outdoor spaces and historic landmarks that make exploring between meals just as exciting as the dining itself. Here’s a short video recap:
No trip to Berkeley is complete without visiting the actual UC Berkeley grounds, especially since this is where my dad studied.
I spent time exploring the Sproul Plaza with the iconic Sather Gate. The plaza is lined with London Plane trees.
Be sure to stop and read the Free Speech Movement monument, and also take a photo with the The Daily Californian newspaper stand.
I absolutely loved seeing the campus where my dad used to walk. I even asked him to send me some old photos from his time there so I could recreate some of those same shots myself!
Of course, you also can’t miss the Campanile. Taking the ride up to the top of the second-tallest freestanding clock and bell tower in the world is a must. At 307-feet tall, expect some truly beautiful panoramic views from all sides of the tower. I got so lucky with a clear day, allowing me to clearly see the Golden Gate Bridge and Alcatraz in the distance, and another side offered great views of the Oakland skyline.
Established in 1890 by botanist E. L. Greene, the University of California Botanical Garden is a breathtaking 34-acre oasis located in Strawberry Canyon.
It has some of the most taxonomically diverse plant collections, housing over 10,000 species, making it the third-largest botanical garden in the United States in specie diversity.
Walking the winding paths through sections dedicated to Asia, Central America (including the Cloud Forests in Costa Rica ), and the Mediterranean feels like traveling the globe.
For a traveling foodie, checking out the Crops of the World, Herb Garden and Chinese Medicinal Herb Garden is a fantastic way to learn about the direct connection between the land and the ingredients we eat.
Tucked in the heart of downtown Berkeley, the Berkeley City Club is a historic hotel initially commissioned as the clubhouse for the local women’s city club. This 1930 landmark features a meticulously maintained design by Julia Morgan, the pioneering visionary California architect behind the famous Hearst Castle. The hotel is incredibly charming with medieval style architecture that made me feel like I’m in Hogwarts.
Just a short drive away is Indian Rock Park, a small but legendary spot offering panoramic views of the entire Bay Area.
This volcanic rock outcropping holds centuries of history. It was a sacred gathering place for the Huichin tribe of the Ohlone people, and you can still see the mortar holes in the bedrock where they ground food.
Donated to the city in 1917 by Duncan McDuffie, it later became the birthplace of modern American rock climbing. Pioneers like Dick Leonard and David Brower developed revolutionary bouldering techniques right here.
Travelling Foodie Tip : Coming from street parking, go around the park for the proper entrance with carved stairs to easily reach the top. Otherwise, you’ll have to rock climb!
I highly recommend picking up some Cult Crackers and mochi donuts and enjoying a quick picnic at the summit while taking in city views and the Golden Gate Bridge.
Finding the right home base is crucial for any travel itinerary, especially when you have a packed schedule of eating and exploring ahead of you.
When I travel, I typically try to stay at a hotel that has character and speaks of the destination. It is a massive bonus if it has amazing food and drink programs. Luckily for me, the Berkeley City Club is a historic hotel that perfectly fits this description.
I stayed at the Suite at Berkeley City Club, which was very spacious, complete with a comfy bedroom, a living room with extra sleeping space, a dining table, and a fridge.
It is definitely ideal for families, couples, or anyone looking for a staycation
Another amazing feature is the famous Julia Morgan vintage designed heated indoor pool. There is even a viewing area with a different entrance if you just want to admire it without swimming.
Travelling Foodie Tip : if your hair is past your ear, you need a swimming cap to swim.
The hospitality here is top notch, starting with the awesome Coffee Corner in the lobby, which is a 24-hour station offering tea, coffee, hot chocolate, and water.
I always brought my water bottle here to fill up at night or when heading out to explore.
They also provide food and drink vouchers upon check-in, including a voucher for a free dessert with an entree purchase at Julia’s Restaurant and a voucher for a free drink at Morgan’s Bar and Lounge.
Mornings at Berkeley City Club meant you can enjoy a complimentary breakfast buffet at Julia’s Restaurant featuring cereal, juices, a vegetarian quiche and a meat quiche, bread, cheese, ham, pastries, yogurt, coffee, and tea. I had the spinach quiche, which was pretty tasty, and I actually added a slice of cheese on top so it melts and enjoyed it with a fresh croissant.
I hope this travel guide gives you an idea on some of the best places to eat and drink in Berkeley, from restaurants and bars to specialty food & drinks and unique experiences.
A trip to this incredible city proves that it’s far more than just a historic academic institution. Berkeley is a diverse culinary destination!
The food scene here is defined by a deep respect for ingredients, a passion for authentic global flavors, and a fiercely independent spirit that champions small businesses and local artisans.
Whether you are hunting for a classic diner breakfast, an authentic Japanese izakaya, or a community focused cafe hidden by a park, the sheer variety and quality of the gastronomy in Berkeley is astounding, and it needs to be on your radar.
As always, happy travels and eating! And if you’re looking for other college towns with a great food scene, check out Laramie, Wyoming and State College, Pennsylvania .
This travel guide is through a culinary project with Visit Berkeley. As usual, all thoughts and opinions are 100% my own.
You can learn more about Visit Berkeley on their website here .
In A Rush? Quickly Plan Your Trip : ✈️ Cheap Flights 🏨 Top Accommodations 🚗 Car Rental Deals 🎫 Discounted Tours & Activities 🧳 Travel Insurance 📶 Travel eSIM 📷 Product Deals
Enjoy the content and want to support? Consider buying me a coffee ☕, purchasing merch 👕, subscribing to the newsletter , or sharing to a friend .
Join the community on YouTube , Facebook , Food Instagram , Travel Instagram , and TikTok !
Neil Adelman
Thursday 19th of March 2026
Try Hella Bagels on San Pablo- Best around!
Raymond Cua
Thursday 19th of March 2026
Thanks for the tip! Taking notes for when I'm in the area.
Kristin
Tuesday 17th of March 2026
Loved this article! Thanks for visiting Berkeley - I'm a West Berkeley resident and it's great to see so many places on here (and add some to my list of places to try...)
If you come back, you need to try Tanzie's for brunch and Rose's Pizzeria!
Raymond Cua
Thursday 19th of March 2026
Thanks for reading! I'm glad I was able to showcase something new for you - which ones haven't you tried?
And thanks for the recs! Taking notes for my next Berkeley trip.